Authorities examine document found near site of blasts beside team bus, say reports citing security sources
Prosecutors investigating explosions beside a bus carrying the German football team Borussia Dortmund say they have detained one suspect.

The explosives used in the attack were pipe bombs with a 100 metre range, a spokeswoman for federal prosecutors said. A metal part from the one of the bombs had lodged in the headrest of one of the seats. “The consequences could have been far worse,” the spokeswoman said.

One BVB player, 26-year old defender Marc Bartra from Spain, was hit by fragments from broken glass and was operated on for a broken wrist. A policeman accompanying the bus in a convoy of police motorbikes was also injured.

Citing security circles, the newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung said a written document found near the site of Tuesday night’s blasts referred to the attack on a Berlin Christmas market last year and claimed that German fighter jets were involved in killing Muslims in the Isis “caliphate”. The newspaper said investigators were looking for a possible Islamic extremist motive behind the attack.

The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, expressed dismay at the attack via her spokesman.

“Last night the chancellor was, like people in Dortmund, like millions everywhere, appalled by the attack on the BVB team bus,” Steffen Seibert told journalists in Berlin. He added that investigators were doing everything to trace those responsible and expressed relief that the outcome was not worse.

A statement claiming responsibility for the attack reportedly starts with a reference to “Allah, the most beneficent, the most merciful” and states that sports personalities and celebrities belonging to “Germany and other crusading nations” were on Isis’s “kill list”.

However, investigators cited by Süddeutsche Zeitung said they were also looking into the possibility that the document was a false trail deliberately laid by another perpetrator.
On Wednesday the German news agency DPA reported a second statement circulating online in which an anti-fascist group claim they carried out the attack in retaliation for Borussia Dortmund not doing enough to distance themselves from rightwing populism.

Prosecutors said “considerable doubt” had been thrown on a claim of responsiblity published on the internet by a left wing group.

German police said they were investigating “in all directions”. Investigators were checking the authenticity of the letters claiming responsibility and but refused to give any details of its contents, citing the ongoing inquiry.

Federal prosecutors, who typically handle especially serious cases, including those in which a terrorist motive is suspected, have taken over the investigation.

The incident occurred at about 7.15pm (1815 BST) in Dortmund’s Höchstem district, approximately six miles (10km) from the club’s stadium, where they were due to play a Champions League quarter-final against Monaco.

Police confirmed there were three explosions near the bus, breaking some of the vehicle’s windows. The defender Marc Bartra was injured by shards of glass and was taken to hospital. He underwent surgery last night on his injured arm to repair a fracture and remove shrapnel, from which he was said to be recovering well.
Borussia Dortmund’s chief executive, Hans-Joachim Watzke, said the coach carrying the players had only just left their hotel and turned on to the road where the explosive devices were hidden behind a hedge. 

“Bartra was injured, on his hand and his arm, but nothing that would be life-threatening,” Watzke said. “The team is in complete shock. Our task is to process this experience, because the match is taking place in less than 24 hours. That’s our job.”

The Dortmund goalkeeper Roman Bürki told Swiss newspaper Blick: “I was sat in the back row next to Marc Bartra, who was hit by the shards of the burst back window. After the bang everyone in the bus got their heads down. We didn’t know whether there would be more. The police arrived quickly, sealed everything off. We are all in shock.”
Sascha Fligge, the club’s spokesman, said: “Shortly after leaving the car park there was a detonation … the team heard a loud bang.

“Marcel Schmelzer said to me, ‘Why is someone throwing a stone again on game day?’ We had that happen, I think, during an away game in Cologne that a big stone hit the window. But it transpired quickly for the players – especially because Marc Bartra loudly called for attention for obvious reasons – that it wasn’t a stone.

“The players had quite different reactions, some threw themselves to the floor, others simply ducked and everyone was totally shocked.”

The match has been postponed until 6.45pm (1745 BST) on Wednesday. Police said “as many officers as possible” would be deployed for the rescheduled game, which will have increased security measures in place.

Fans have been warned they risk longer waiting times to enter the stadium and have been urged to leave backpacks at home, or risk being turned away.
German Football Association (DFB) president Reinhard Grindel, who had planned to attend Wednesday night’s clash between Bayern Munich and Real Madrid, will now be at the Dortmund-Monaco game instead.

He said in a statement: “It is important to me personally and in my position as DFB president to be in Dortmund today to show that all German football is united with BVB.”

Leading German politicians are also expected to attend, including interior minister Thomas de Maiziere.

Monaco fans left facing an extra night in Germany were offered accommodation by thousands of Dortmund fans via the hashtag bedforawayfans on social media, while the club said on Twitter that all their supporters staying in Dortmund on Tuesday night would be reimbursed up to €80 (£68) by the club.

Monaco’s vice-president, Vadim Vasilyev, described the attack as “despicable” and said: “Football should not be taken hostage by these individuals.”

Speaking on the club website, he emphasised his support for Dortmund and Bartra, praised Monaco fans for their “exemplary behaviour” and thanked German fans for their “generosity”.

He added: “We will help our players to get through this situation. Football will be stronger than this type of ignoble act.”

Monaco’s Ligue 1 match at home to Dijon on Saturday, which was due to kick off at 1600 BST, has now been put back to 8pm.

Airline Eurowings, a partner of Dortmund, has offered fans affected by the postponement the chance to transfer their flights free of charge.

Uefa said in a statement that it was reviewing security arrangements for all of Wednesday night’s Champions League games and that “security procedures will be enhanced accordingly wherever needed”. 