The one page letter is said to refer to 'Allah' and the 'Berlin Christmas market attack' - but there are concerns it might be a deliberate attempt to mislead investigators
German police are investigating an 'Islamist link' to the bomb attack on the bus carrying the Borussia Dortmund football team last night, a report from the AFP news agency says.

According to several local media outlets - Süddeutschern Zeitung, the NDR and the WDR - the one page letter begins: "In the name of Allah, the Gracious, the Merciful."

The document is also claimed to refer to the attack on the Berlin Christmas market in December - and is also said to claim that German airplanes are involved in 'assassinating Muslims in the Caliphate of the Islamic State'.

One German newspaper says the letter claims the attack was aimed at the team because of the Syrian mission - which has resulted in sportsmen and other celebrities "in Germany and other Crusading nations" being put "on a death list of the Islamic State."
It goes on to claim the letter demands an immediate withdrawal of the (German air force) Bundeswehr Tornadoes from Syria as well as the closure of the American air base in Ramstein in Germany.

Controversial drone operations against alleged terrorists in the Middle East are controlled from the base.
It has also emerged however this morning that police are believed to be questioning the veracity of the letter amid concerns its authors are deliberately trying to mislead investigators and pin the blame on Muslim extremists - possibly fascists.

There are also reports this morning that investigators are examining a second letter claiming responsibility for the attack that injured one player - according to Reuters.

Focus online magazine said a message posted on an anti-fascism online portal said the attack was in 
retaliation for what the letter claims is the 'club's soft approach toward neo-Nazi and racist fans'.

It's now emerged there were up to three explosions - believed detonated by a mobile phone - close to the team bus as the team made their way to the Champions League semi-final against Monaco at 5.45pm (UK time) last night.

The explosion shattered the bus' windows - and scorch marks could be seen on its right-hand side.

One player, Marc Bartra, was injured by broken glass and has undergone surgery on his arm and hand overnight - with unconfirmed reports that he has broken a bone, possibly his wrist and that he is 'severely' shocked.
A policeman on a motorcycle which was escorting the bus was also injured by the blast, according to unconfirmed reports.
A German prosecutor has said that a letter found near the bombed coach "takes responsibility for the act".

But police have also confirmed this morning additional "suspicious objects" reported to have been found at the Dortmund team hotel were in fact false alarms.

Police are still verifying the authenticity of the letter's claims - and there is still no official word on its exact contents.
The country remains on a knife-edge as the attack on the bus comes four months after the Berlin Christmas market attack which killed 12 and injured 56 more.
It was revealed that after the explosions Dortmund players were transferred to the ground in minibuses and later made their way home in private cars.

A huge manhunt has been launched this morning for perpetrators - after a local police chief confirmed it had been a "targeted attack" against the team.
"The letter claims responsibility for what happened," prosecutor Sandra Luecke said late last night, adding that "its authenticity is being verified".

German newspaper Bild says that police are looking for a getaway car with 'foreign' licence plates.
It's also emerged this morning that the Federal Prosecutor has taken over the investigation into the attack on the football team's coach.
The Federal Public Prosecutor said in a statement it would hold a news conference at 2pm (1pm UK time).

Meanwhile UEFA are holding a security review this morning - after last night's scheduled match was postponed to 6.45pm this evening (local time).

Bartra will not take part - although Borussia president said an operation on his wrist overnight "went well".
