OSLO, Norway, March 29, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- Today John Danilovich, Secretary General of International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), announced the winners of 2017 Oslo Business for Peace Award at an event at the Oslo City Hall, hosted by Governing Mayor of Oslo Raymond Johansen. Dr. Harley Seyedin (President of American Chamber of Commerce in South China), Elon Musk, Durreen Shahnaz and Murad Al-Katib are the four winners of this award. The selection was made by an independent committee of Nobel Prize winners in Peace and Economics in closed-door meetings for the Oslo Business for Peace Foundation.

The Committee chose the recipients from a pool of nominees from over 40 countries put forward by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), and the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC).
The Business for Peace Award will be presented to Dr. Seyedin by three Nobel Laureates in Peace and Economics at a two-day celebration scheduled for May 15-16th in Oslo, Norway. The ceremony takes place on May 16th in Oslo City Hall, the same location as that of the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony.

The Award Ceremony is the highlight of the annual Business for Peace Summit. In addition to a Welcome Reception and Gala Dinner, hosted by HRH Crown Prince Haakon and HRH Crown Princess Mette-Marit, the Summit also hosts the Business for Peace Roundtable.

The event brings together 150-200 board chairs, CEOs and leaders of international organizations to discuss practical actions needed to make substantial, business relevant progress on fulfilling the Sustainable Development Goals. This event has over the recent years enjoyed the participation of outstanding leaders such as Sir Richard Branson, Ouided Bouchamaoui and Paul Polman (all of them previous Business for Peace Honorees as well), David Blood, Dominic Barton, Lady de Rothschild and Philip Kotler.

In 2017, the theme for the Business for Peace Summit is "Brundtland +30: Breakthrough Ideas for Futureproofing the Global Economy". It marks the 30th anniversary for the report, "Our Common Future", published by the World Commission on Environment and Development, which was led by Dr. Gro Harlem Brundtland, three time former Prime Minister of Norway and former Director-General of the World Health Organization. Dr. Brundtland will be attending this year's Summit, giving the keynote "State of the Union between Business and Society".

Some of the confirmed speakers are Norway's Prime Minister Erna Solberg, Adam Grant (Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania), Brett Wigdortz (Teach First), George Serafeim (Harvard), Martin Sandbu (Financial Times) and William MacAskill (Oxford).

The mission of Business for Peace is to support, inspire, and recognize the global business leaders who are positively changing the face of business. At the center of the Foundation's efforts is the annual Business for Peace Award. Each year, recipients are selected by an independent committee of Nobel Prize winners in Peace and Economics in closed-door meetings, and the Award is conferred annually to the exceptional individuals who exemplify the Foundation's concept of being business-worthy: ethically creating economic value that also creates value for society.

About Business for Peace Award

Business for Peace is an Oslo-based foundation that works to redefine the notion of success in business and to promote an evolved form of capitalism. This endeavor is manifested by recognizing exceptional individuals who exemplify the concept of being business-worthy. That is, applying one's business energy ethically and responsibly to create value for all. An independent committee of Nobel laureates in peace and economics selects the Honorees from a pool of nominees put forward by global partners in the United Nations and the International Chamber of Commerce. By facilitating this process and promoting these individuals, the vision is to unlock the positive power that lays in business to the benefit of peace and prosperity.