The man has time and again did it for South Africa batting in the death overs. A stupendous striker of the cricket ball, Chris Morris is hugely underestimated with the willow and he once again proved how wrong that is with a whirlwind knock for Delhi Daredevils in their clash against Rising Pune Supergiant.
The South African all-rounder walked in with Delhi having just lost their centurion, Sanju Samson in the penultimate over bowled by Adam Zampa. Morris revealed his intentions first ball as he stepped to the leg side and slapped Zampa over covers for four. Two balls later he hoisted the leggie over long-on before ending the over with another lofted drive over mid-off for four.
Ben Stokes and last overs have a history and Morris ensured that the myth was revisited. After receiving the strike from Corey Anderson first ball, Morris pulled a poor short delivery from Stokes through fine leg for a boundary. A couple followed before he unleashed the shot of the day. A leg stump yorker from Stokes was deftly timed through point after he moved to the leg side. The ball scurried through to the ropes as the crowd watched in stunned silence. 
The fifth ball of the over, a length delivery on his pads was dispatched over square leg with a mere flick of his wrists. The last ball was short and misdirected and Morris ensured the crowd had another chance to catch the ball with a thunderous pull shot. 
The South African had done the improbable. From 166/4 in 18.2 overs, Morris blasted Delhi to 205, scoring 38 runs in just 9 balls with three sixes and four fours. The knock that spanned just 10 balls of the innings helped Delhi from an average total to a humongous one.
Context of the match
Delhi, helped by Sanju Samson's maiden IPL hundred strolled along at a good rate in spite of Imran Tahir's exceptional spells. Pune missed the hard working fast bowler as Dinda once again failed with the ball. Samson and Billings blasted Delhi to a superb start by smashing fours at will against Deepak Chahar and Ashok Dinda. 
Once Billings left, Rishabh Pant continued his fine touch with a well made 31 but Samson stole the limelight with some classic cricket strokes. His hundred took Delhi to 166 in 18.2 overs but the last ten balls turned the game around completely. 

Chris Morris walked in with the freedom of an eight-year-old kid and sent the ball soaring to all parts of the ground. Rather than mere slogging, Morris played the right shots to the right balls and got stunning results. 