Barcelona pulled off the impossible. They became the first team to ever come back from a four-goal first leg deficit, and they did it in the most dramatic way possible. Sergi Roberto's 95th minute goal secured the greatest comeback in Champions League history, but what did we learn from the match that no one will forget?

Neymar shone brightest when it mattered
All three of Barcelona's MSN trio got on the scoresheet, and all three were dangerous throughout. Messi was fantastic, but it was Neymar who really shone. He was fantastic against PSG in the first leg, and he was absolutely brilliant in the second, grabbing two goals and setting up Sergi Roberto's incredible last-minute winner.

Barcelona's midfield stepped up
Midfield's been a big issue for Barcelona recently. They were completely outclassed in the first leg away to PSG, but that wasn't the case in the home leg. Sergio Busquets controlled the middle of the field, Andres Iniesta created a number of chances, and Ivan Rakitic was his typical energetic presence. Messi, Neymar and Suarez got the goals, but it was the midfield that helped spark a comeback for Barcelona, and they were miles better than their showing in the first leg.

One note however: It was Rakitic whose weak challenge on Layvin Kurzawa allowed him to head down for Cavani, and that one moment was the one that nearly determined the whole tie.

Barcelona still have no answer at right back
Since Barcelona lost Daniel Alves, they haven't had a real answer at the right back position. Sergi Roberto filled in admirably, and Aleix Vidal looked like he could be the man going forward before his injury ruled him out for the rest of the season, but they never found any real solidity at the position.

Luis Enrique used Rafinha as a right wing-back against PSG, but he didn't do much to distinguish himself in his 76 minutes. It was Roberto himself, brought on for Rafinha, who went on to score the winner, but right back continues to be an issue for Barcelona and it's something that they'll struggle to figure out moving forward.

PSG looked terrified in the opening minutes
Barcelona came out ready to GO against PSG, and the visitors looked completely unprepared. They were awful at the back, and it wasn't any better in midfield. They kept 11 players behind the ball, but it didn't matter with the poor quality of defending and inability to hold onto the ball when they finally did win it back.

PSG's midfield was a shadow of themselves from the first leg
PSG's midfield were incredible in the first leg. They made Barcelona look like pedestrians, and they outran, outworked, and even out-skilled the Blaugrana at home in Paris. In the return leg, they were just plain awful. The energy wasn't there, the technical ability all but disappeared, and PSG's midfield three looked as if they'd never seen each other before. PSG couldn't pull this one out because their midfield just didn't show up.

Edinson Cavani did his job, but it didn't matter
Edinson Cavani is an absolutely incredible striker, but his wastefulness in front of is no secret. His work rate is unmatched, and his fantastic movement off the ball means he gets more chances than a number of other strikers, but he has been known to miss some real sitters in his time. Against Barcelona he got one real clear cut chance (and one tough he sent off the post), and he put it away. It should've been the winner, but it just wasn't to be. 

