Three goals in the final seven minutes of the game - two of which came in stoppage time - saw Barcelona perform arguably the greatest comeback in Champions League history against Paris Saint-Germain.

Edinson Cavani's goal in the 62nd minute looked to have broken Barcelona hearts, but the Catalan giants rallied and Sergi Roberto's late strike saw them run out 6-1 winners on the night and 6-5 on aggregate.

For all the world it looked as though comeback was off; Cavani's volley from inside the area silenced the home support and drained Barcelona of all life. At 3-1, the game was over. His 38th goal in 37 matches for the French champions killed off any hopes of a Barcelona comeback.

Barcelona had stormed into a 3-0 lead in the opening hour of this evening's clash at the Nou Camp. Luis Suarez, Lionel Messi and a rather fortunate own-goal saw the atmosphere within the stadium lift and one of Europe's heavyweights were on the ropes. 

Suarez had the home side in front within three minutes of play. A cross into the PSG box was knocked back into the six-yard box and the Uruguayan got to the ball ahead of Kevin Trapp. His flick took it over the line, despite attempts to clear.

From here, Barcelona ramped up the pressure. Knowing the size of the task they had ahead of themselves, Luis Enrique's side squeezed PSG into their own half. Possession was won back quickly - or given away cheaply, depending on what side of the fence you were on.

Unai Emery's team looked nervous and any rushed clearances were brought down by the high Barcelona defensive line and redistributed. 

Chances came at a relentless pace in the opening 20 minutes. 

Javier Marscherano's volley from the edge of the box flew wide, before Lionel Messi fired high over the bar from a freekick. Neymar threatened on occasion and his effort from the top right hand corner of the box just didn't have enough bend to find its way into the top corner. 

The own-goal came as a result of Andres Iniesta's jinking run and Layvin Kurzawa turned into his own net.

PSG had a speculative effort through Lucas Moura, but the effort was saved comfortably. Messi's penalty just five minutes into the second half gave them another boost.

But with PSG having secured a precious away goal just 12 minutes later, Barcelona made a halfhearted attempt at a comeback. Substitute Arda Turan had a ball cleared off the line, before Angel Di Maria had the chance to kill off the game.

His dinked effort went wide of the post and the clock ticked down.

Then up stepped Neymar.

After Barcelona won a freekick to the left-hand side of PSG goal, the Brazilian struck a wonderful strike at the near post to beat Trapp.

This was the catalyst and only moments later, Suarez was bundled over in the box. Having already been booked for simulation, the Uruguayan was given the benefit of the decision and Neymar scored his second in quick succession.

Their winner came in the fifth and final minute of added time. A high lofted ball into the PSG box wasn't dealt with and Roberto was at the back post to turn the ball home, sparking scenes of delirium around the stadium.

PSG will rightly look back at this as a game they threw away, but take nothing away from the magnitude of the win, something that will surely propel them to be real contenders this year.

Elsewhere tonight, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang scored a hat-trick as Borussia Dortmund came from 1-0 down on aggregate to win 4-1 and secure their place in the quarter-final.