Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal faced an awkward moment on Saturday during his election rally in the national capital when a group of people began to chant Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s name.

Kejriwal was addressing an election rally in Gautam Vihar Chowk, when a group of people started chanting ‘Modi, Modi.’

The chanting began just when the Delhi chief minister was spelling out his government’s plans for the MCD employees if his Aam Aadmi Party won the civic body polls, scheduled for later this month.

However, far from being perturbed by the incessant chants, Kejriwal asked the crowd if by chanting Modi’s name will they have their house tax removed.

He said, “Ask them if by chanting Modi, Modi, they can have their house tax waived, then I will shout Modi, Modi. Did Modi reduce your electricity tariff? If by chanting Modi’s names, you can get your electricity tariff reduced, then I will also chant Modi, Modi. You don’t overcome your hunger by chanting Modi, Modi. These people have gone mad.”

In his address, Kejriwal repeated his allegation, made on Friday at his first poll rally, that the BJP and the Congress were “conspiring” to take over the departments of water and power to effect a tariff hike in these areas. He promised to make Delhi sparkling clean within a year and to shore up the revenues of the cash-strapped corporations that have faced a series of strikes by sanitation workers over non-payment of salaries.

Sounding the bugle for the MCD polls, Kejriwal on Friday had cautioned the people that power and water tariff will increase if either the BJP or the Congress comes to power in civic bodies.

Kejriwal and Modi have been sworn political enemies since the former chose to contest against him from Varanasi in 2014 Lok Sabha elections.

The AAP leader was also responsible for stopping Modi’s juggernaut of poll victories in February 2015, when the BJP was reduced to just three seats in Delhi assembly polls despite several election rallies by the prime minister.