In a rather interesting turn of events, a section of the crowd at a rally of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal started chanting ‘Modi Modi’, even when the Delhi CM was addressing the rally. Ahead of the upcoming MCD elections, Kejriwal today raised several issues faced by the government due to lack of cooperation with the MCD, at the rally in Gautam Vihar Chowk area. Stating that the MCD strikes resulted in heaps of garbage accumulated in different parts of the city, Kejriwal said that if they form government after the elections, employees will receive their salaries within the 7th of every month without going for a strike.
And as a section of the crowd started shouting ‘Modi Modi’ during Kejriwal’s speech at the rally in Gautam Vihar Chowk area, the AAP chief had however reacted swiftly at the crowd. Taking a hit at the crowd Kejriwal said that if by chanting ‘Modi Modi’ house taxes get exempted, or the electricity bill rate comes down, then even he is ready to chant the name of the Prime Minister.

Earlier in the day, voicing concerns over alleged tampering of EVM machines, Kejriwal and a delegation of Congress leaders on Sunday met Chief Election Commissioner Nasim Zaidi and called for a tamper-free election. “Software was changed, so that anyone presses the button, it will only lead to BJP, 12,000 machines were installed in Delhi itself, and random sampling of the machine revealed that it was tampered with,” Kejriwal said addressing media after meeting Election Comission. “The machines in Delhi cantt and Madhya Pradesh, Assam, that the machines were found to be tampered with and they have not being checked, it’s a big question mark on democracy,” he added.

HomeIndia news Watch: Here’s how Arvind Kejriwal responds to crowd chanting ‘Modi Modi’ at AAP rally
Watch: Here’s how Arvind Kejriwal responds to crowd chanting ‘Modi Modi’ at AAP rally
In an rather interesting turn of events, a section of the crowd at a rally of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal started chanting 'Modi Modi', even when the Delhi CM was addressing the rally.
By: FE Online | New Delhi | Published: April 1, 2017 10:42 PM
1K
SHARES
Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
 Kejriwal today raised several issues faced by the government due to lack of cooperation with the MCD. (PTI)
In a rather interesting turn of events, a section of the crowd at a rally of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal started chanting ‘Modi Modi’, even when the Delhi CM was addressing the rally. Ahead of the upcoming MCD elections, Kejriwal today raised several issues faced by the government due to lack of cooperation with the MCD, at the rally in Gautam Vihar Chowk area. Stating that the MCD strikes resulted in heaps of garbage accumulated in different parts of the city, Kejriwal said that if they form government after the elections, employees will receive their salaries within the 7th of every month without going for a strike.
And as a section of the crowd started shouting ‘Modi Modi’ during Kejriwal’s speech at the rally in Gautam Vihar Chowk area, the AAP chief had however reacted swiftly at the crowd. Taking a hit at the crowd Kejriwal said that if by chanting ‘Modi Modi’ house taxes get exempted, or the electricity bill rate comes down, then even he is ready to chant the name of the Prime Minister.

Earlier in the day, voicing concerns over alleged tampering of EVM machines, Kejriwal and a delegation of Congress leaders on Sunday met Chief Election Commissioner Nasim Zaidi and called for a tamper-free election. “Software was changed, so that anyone presses the button, it will only lead to BJP, 12,000 machines were installed in Delhi itself, and random sampling of the machine revealed that it was tampered with,” Kejriwal said addressing media after meeting Election Comission. “The machines in Delhi cantt and Madhya Pradesh, Assam, that the machines were found to be tampered with and they have not being checked, it’s a big question mark on democracy,” he added.

“I don’t trust EVMs from the very starting. When the whole world is using ballot paper for elections, then what objection should we have, (Mujhe shuru se EVM pe bharosa nhi. Jb sare vishwa mein chunaav ballot paper se ho rahe hain, toh hume kya aitraaz hona chahiy)” Digvijaya Singh said. Earlier on Monday, Aam Aadmi Party had approached the Election Commission over alleged EVM tampering in Punjab, and had demanded that slips generated by VVPAT machines be matched with the election result. After thee meeting, AAP leader Raghav Chadha told reporters that the party’s preliminary analysis of booth level voting pattern showed that Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) were tampered with.