Jamaica's Usain Bolt (centre) eased up over the last 20m to win his 100m heat, qualifying fourth-fastest for the semifinals.

Usain Bolt turned the Olympic Stadium into his stage again for his first race at the Rio Games. With an easy win in his 100m heat, backed up by the trademark showmanship, he did not disappoint his crowd.

All of a sudden, the 60,000-capacity stadium was filled with noisy fans on a sunny Saturday (Sunday NZ Time), a stark contrast with the opening day.

The roar was immense as soon as the Jamaican turned up on the track. Bolt returned the favour, spreading his arms wide and then applauding the crowd for their welcome and shouts of "Bolt-Bolt-Bolt."
Brazilian fans cheered everything Usain Bolt did before, during and after his first appearance on the track at the Rio Olympics.

The crowd had been difficult to calm and silence ahead of the start of races so far, but when Bolt put his fingers to his lips for silence, all went quiet.
Bolt may have been slow out of the blocks, but once his tall majestic frame is in full flow, there is no stopping him - in the heats at least.

"It wasn't the best start, it felt kind of sluggish," Bolt said, adding that he never has been a morning person and preparations for his noon-time race felt unusual. "I'm not used to running this early in the morning in any championships.

"Hopefully tomorrow when I come out I'll be feeling much better."

From lane six, he had time to look left four times to check out his opposition and then coasted across the line. He showed no ill effect from a hamstring injury ahead of the Games.

"My right leg is good."

His time of 10.07 seconds trailed that of his longtime rival Justin Gatlin by .06 seconds, but Bolt was running into a headwind while the American had the wind on his side.

In his heat, Gatlin showed just as much poise - without the showmanship. He shot out of the blocks and only let up at the very end for the best time of all racers.

Others to go through were Nickel Ashmeade and Yohan Blake of Jamaica and American Trayvon Brommell.

Bolt is bidding for his third straight title in the 100m and his third straight sprint triple, including the 200m and 4x100m relay. Gatlin is aiming for a second Olympic 100m title to add to the one he won at the 2004 Athens Olympics.

The men's 100m semifinals are scheduled for Sunday (12pm Monday NZT).

Former Detroit Lions running back Jahvid Best, competing for Saint Lucia, clocked 10.38 seconds in Bolt's heat but failed to qualify for the semifinals.