This is something of a blow to the government's basic idea of having the Aadhaar numbers and cards in the first place. Yes, of course there's the usual desire of bureaucrats everywhere to know more about the people and what they do--usually with the intention of stopping them doing anything they enjoy. But the biometric identification and the insistence upon everyone being registered is actually trying to solve a real and serious problem in India. Which is how do we make the poor less poor?

The obvious answer to making poor people less poor is to give them money. If you've got more money you are less poor, clearly. But we can't just go handing out money to everyone who says they are poor. One reason being that it won't take long for people to start claiming that they're poor several times in order to get several allocations of money. It's not as if the current welfare schemes aren't riddled with ghost claimants after all.

And that's really what Aadhaar is aimed at. Being able to register everyone so that India's welfare system can be switched from the extremely inefficient provision of goods and services to one of just providing money. By making the system more efficient we can either alleviate more poverty for the same cost or alleviate the same amount for less taxation taken from our wallets.

The very point of Aadhaar is the welfare system. So this is something of a blow:

In a rather surprising move, the Supreme Court on Monday told the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre that it cannot make the Aadhar card mandatory to extend the benefits of its welfare schemes. The Supreme Court further added that the government, however, cannot be stopped from using Aadhaar in other schemes like opening of bank accounts.

That does leave an opening of course:

The government recently made it mandatory for citizens to produce the 12-digit Aadhaar number for benefits under nearly three dozen central schemes including free mid-day meals for schoolchildren. Aadhaar was also made compulsory for scholarships and other schemes for backward castes and the disabled. Aadhaar cards are mandatory for subsidized cooking gas and foodgrains.

That's the sort of inefficiency we're trying to get rid of. Instead of having three dozen schemes each with its own bureaucracy doling out one thing or another we want to be able to just ship some money to people once a month. To do that we've got to be able to identify people--thus Aadhaar.

Critics have alleged that the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), which runs the Aadhaar scheme, is getting biometric details through private agencies, which violated citizens' fundamental rights.

That could even be true although I regard it as a pretty weak argument.

Still, it's easy enough to see what is going to happen next. The government is still going to move ahead with turning the welfare system into a money distribution, not goods and services, one. The Aadhaar card, number, cannot be used as a necessary adjunct to gaining welfare says the Supreme Court. But it can be a necessary adjunct of getting a bank account. At which point the government will just say that welfare payments will be made into a bank account. Thus re-creating the Aadhaar link. And since the longer term plan has always been to make welfare payments through the banking system....