During this year's campaign, Sidhu went on record multiple times saying that he wants to transform Punjab and as we all know, the change begins at the grass root level.
Putting end to all the speculations, cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu joined Congress ahead of the assembly election in Punjab. His felicitation to the party was organised at a grand level by the former Union minister Ajay Maken. “I am a born Congressman, I am just returning to my party,” boomed Punjab’s own child but there were voices that said he made this switch for the CM post. FFingerswere pointed when Captain Amarinder Singh was named Congress’ CM face but there was hope that Sidhu can still be the Deputy Chief Minister.
Fast forward to today, Amarinder Singh took oath as the new Chief Minister of Punjab as Congress comfortably won Punjab by getting 77 seats. However, Sidhu wasn’t named the Deputy Chief Minister of the state. In fact, he was given the low profile local bodies ministry but that could actually prove to be a blessing in disguise for the 53-year-old politician who makes more appearances on Indian TV than his constituency.
During this year’s campaign, Sidhu went on record multiple times saying that he wants to transform Punjab and as we all know, the change begins at the grass root level. Moreover, this is the best way to connect with the people and address their real issues. Yes, everyone wants a highly developed state with best roads but there is nothing more important that food and shelter. Heading the local bodies ministry gives Navjot Singh Sidhu a chance to make a difference with his vigorous approach and his gung-ho and can-do spirit.
No doubt the people of India loves him but that has more do with his on-camera stints than his political heroics. Instead of complaining, Sidhu should humbly accept the task and get to work as it will be a reflection of his honesty towards his work. His desire for high profile ministries, however, will indicate he was never serious about politics but was only interested in personal aggrandisement. There is no competition for Sidhu – the commentator, Sidhu – the reality TV star but it’s time for Sidhu – the politician to make a place in their heart.