Donald Trump, President of the United States of America on Monday called up Prime Minister Narendra Modi to congratulate him on his recent electoral success. The White House in its statement informed that both the leaders spoke on a phone call.  The Prime Minister’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) formed the government in four states Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur out of the five poll-bound states. The polling for the assembly elections in these five poll-bound states begun on February 4 and ended on March 9.
The assembly elections this year were crucial for the ruling BJP and its main opposition party Congress as both parties tried hard to woo voters and aimed to win with a thumping majority. The BJP returned to power in Uttar Pradesh after a gap of 15 years during which regional parties such as the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party held sway. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to twitter and said, “US President HE Mr. @realDonaldTrump called PM @narendramodi to convey his felicitations on the electoral results”.

Following the much-debated decision to demonetise Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes, the elections in the five states had turned into a virtual referendum on Modi’s popularity. The party bagged three-fourth majority in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. In Goa and Manipur, the BJP managed to form the government with support from other regional parties after the states faced hung assemblies. 

Along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Trump also spoke to German Chancellor Angela Merkel on their electoral victories. “The president spoke with German Chancellor Merkel and Indian Prime Minister Modi earlier today to congratulate them on their parties’ success in recent elections,” Press Secretary Sean Spicer said.
Modi was among the first world leaders to congratulate Donald Trump after his surprise victory in the November 8 elections in the United States. Modi was the fifth foreign leader Trump had spoken to on phone after he was sworn-in as the US president on January 20. He had also spoken to British Prime Minister Theresa May, Canada’s Justin Trudeau, Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and the Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi.

Narendra Modi and Trump talked by phone on January 24, when they had resolved to stand “shoulder-to-shoulder” in the global fight against terrorism and for defence and security, PTI reported. According to a White House statement then, Trump had “emphasised that the US considers India a true friend and partner in addressing challenges around the world.”

