Barcelona completed one of the most sensational comebacks in the history of the UEFA Champions League on Wednesday at the Camp Nou, scoring three times in the final three minutes to beat Paris Saint-Germain 6-1 on the night and 6-5 on aggregate to progress into the quarter-finals.   

Luis Suarez struck in the third minute to give the La Liga side the perfect start before a comical own goal from Layvin Kurzawa put Barcelona 2-0 ahead at the break. Lionel Messi's second-half penalty gave the hosts more hope, but a clinical finish from Edinson Cavani looked to have ended the tie.

However, there was still remarkable drama to follow, as a quick-fire brace from Neymar set up a nervy finish. And Sergi Roberto was left to strike in stoppage time to send the home fans wild and Barcelona into the last eight.

If Barcelona were going to mount a comeback, they needed an early goal. And that's what they got.

It wasn't the prettiest of goals, with hesitancy gripping the PSG defence in the third minute. Suarez was on hand to capitalise, nodding past the hapless Kevin Trapp. The Camp Nou was suddenly abuzz with renewed belief.

As noted by Miguel Delaney of The Independent, it was not the assured start visiting manager Unai Emery would have been hoping for:

Naturally, the opener buoyed the hosts, and they started to create chances frequently. PSG looked as though they had seen off the initial storm from Barcelona and were a lot more assured in their defensive play as the half wore on.

However, the visitors shot themselves in the foot in spectacular style five minutes before the break. There seemed to be little danger as Andres Iniesta chased the ball into the area. But PSG were all at sea, and a panicked Kurzawa skewed the ball into his own net beyond Trapp.

Per Agence France-Presse's Kieran Canning, the Camp Nou were relishing the unfamiliar role of underdogs:

The visitors managed to get to half-time with the deficit at just two on the night, and the home fans roared their appreciation as time was called on a breathless 45 minutes.

After the break, they didn't look any more composed, and once again, they were the architects of their own downfall in the buildup to a Barcelona goal. Thomas Meunier felled Neymar in the penalty area; Messi stepped up and calmly made it 3-0.

Per Bleacher Report UK, at this point, there was no doubt—the comeback was on:

It was within inches of being off again seconds later, as Cavani turned Meunier's brilliant cross onto the post. However, the in-form Uruguayan wasn't to be denied the next time the ball dropped to him in the area.

 

Kurzawa did superbly to steal in around the back of Ivan Rakitic, nodding the ball back into the danger zone. Cavani arrived on the penalty spot, striking a brilliant effort beyond the rooted Marc-Andre ter Stegen and into the roof of the net.   

As noted by WhoScored.com, the PSG striker has been in sensational form in front of goal this season:

The goal gave PSG breathing room, with Barcelona suddenly needing at least six goals to progress. The momentum that had been so prevalent in their play earlier in the contest and the cacophony of noise inside the stadium slipped away.

However, there was still time for drama. Neymar curled home a magnificent free-kick to give Barcelona their fourth of the evening with three minutes to go.

Then, PSG showed their defensive frailties again in the final minute of normal time, as Suarez was bundled over in the box and the officials awarded another penalty. Neymar stepped up again, calmly finishing and giving Barcelona a slender chance with five minutes of stoppage time remaining.

Remarkably, it was enough for them to conjure one of the most dramatic moments in the history of the sport, as Neymar lofted the ball over the PSG defence into the path of the substitute Roberto. He steered his strike beyond Trapp to complete an exhilarating evening.

Per Squawka Football, it was Neymar who took control of the contest in the latter stages to fire Barcelona to this incredible win:

As we can see courtesy of the club's Twitter feed, the Camp Nou was abuzz with energy after the final whistle:

After Cavani's goal, this comeback didn't seem possible. With three minutes left on the clock, it wasn't possible. But somehow, Barcelona clawed their way to an aggregate advantage against all the odds.

Even though this a sporting institution that has won so many honours and enjoyed so many great nights during its existence, this is an evening that will be etched into the club's rich history forever. And what a springboard it may yet be with the Champions League, La Liga and the Copa del Rey all still to play for.