Barcelona's remarkable turnaround against Paris Saint-Germain in the Champions League on Wednesday, which was sealed by a stoppage-time Sergi Roberto goal, provoked a micro-earthquake in the Catalan city.

Roberto latched on to a Neymar cross to score the sixth goal in Barca's thrilling 6-1 win, making them the first team in the history of the competition to overturn a four-goal deficit from the first leg.

It was the third goal in the final seven minutes of the match and led to pandemonium at Camp Nou, with coaching staff and supporters streaming on to the pitch and Luis Enrique injuring himself in the melee.

"I left some ligaments on the pitch but it was worth it!" the Barca coach joked after the game.

It wasn't just at Camp Nou where the effects of Roberto's goal were felt, either. Supporters who didn't have tickets and watched the games in bars around the city told ESPN FC that they'd never seen such an eruption of emotion when the winning goal hit the back of the net.

One fan, who was watching at home, admitted he'd switched the television off after Edinson Cavani's goal made it 3-1 in favour of getting in some extra sleep ahead of an early start in the morning.

However, he was soon woken by his startled wife, unaware of what was happening less than three miles from their apartment and frenetically worrying that a robbery was taking place at their neighbours.

Another supporter told ESPN FC that he, too, had given up after Cavani's goal, only to desperately scramble for the remote control to switch the channel back when he heard fireworks and beeping horns on the streets.


All that noise -- although perhaps above all the roars and celebrations from the 96,920 people at Camp Nou -- led to a recording on the Richter scale at the Jaume Almera Institute of Earth Sciences (ICTJA-CSIC), which is less than a mile from the stadium.

Barcelona's second and third goals had already nudged the centre's recordings, but it was the match-winning goal from Roberto which led to a recording of 1.0 on the Richter scale, officially making it a micro-earthquake.

"As the end of the game approached, everything changed. With the sixth goal, there is the greatest earthquake of its type recorded at ICTJA-CSIC," researcher Jordi Diaz told Diario Sport.

It's unlikely, though, that the tremors were felt by people in the city -- it's only when 3.0 is reached that people would feel anything.

