2017 could be the year in which Samsung and Apple come up against an old foe, well, in name, alone. Because rumors have surfaced about a Nokia 9 smartphone, which could take on the Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus in all aspects. If you don’t know Nokia has licensed its brand name to another company called HMD Global. And it is this company that is manufacturing the iconic names return to the industry.
Nokia 9

Following on from the recent rumors of a Nokia 8, this latest speculation shows HMD Global is serious. Now whether that’s serious concerning stirring the pot, or actually developing and releasing these handsets is yet to be seen. However, is giving the dormant giant brand some traction on social media and various tech forums.

As for where the rumors were first brought to the attention of the public. That comes from a tip received by NokiaPowerUser, on April 1. Could this be a fools joke, it’s possible, although, we will take it as a tip-off nothing more.

Nokia 9 Vs. Galaxy S8 Iris Scanner

So, what does this report tell us, well to start with it suggests that it’s not just Samsung that is toying around with Iris scanners? Apparently, HMD Global has been working on eye level security of its own for the possible Nokia 9. As for how advanced this component will be in comparison to those found on the Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus, we don’t know. However, as more in revealed, we will let you know.

QHD, OLED display

Rumored to be 5.5-inches in size, the display on the Nokia 9 will feature OLED technology capable of reaching QHD resolutions. Now, right now, that doesn’t tell us, or you much, and there’s no more details to go on. So, while the overall size of the display would be smaller, would the different technology incorporated make it superior? We will just have to wait and see.

Camera

To many, the 12MP rear, and 8MP front cameras found on the Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus are a letdown. Yes, Samsung has included a tweak here and there, but, fundamentally, they are the same that appeared on the S7 and S7 Edge. Meaning that Android smartphone users are still craving for some next-generation camera goodness, could the Nokia 9 provide this?

According to the report, that’s a yes, as it could feature a 22MP rear dual-lens camera and 12MP front camera. Both of which come from the long time Nokia collaborative partner Carl Zeiss. However, where the real fun comes into play is with the dual-lens. Apparently, it will offer, true optical zoom, something which neither S8 can supply.

Power

While the S8’s feature the very latest Snapdragon 835 chipset, or depending on where you live the Exynos 8895. It’s thought the Nokia 9 will also feature the Qualcomm chip. And while this isn’t exactly worth bragging about (in terms of this comparison) it is the most powerful Android based chip around. Making the Galaxy S8 and the Nokia 9, two smartphones that could be classed as the fastest.

However, while Samsung has chosen to back up the chip with 4GB of RAM, users wanted 6GB. It seems as though, HMD Global has been listening, as it will supposedly support the Snapdragon with a minimum of 6GB. Meaning, it should out-perform the S8’s. Additionally, an option to choose from either 64GB or 128GB storage options is also superior to the single 64GB on offer from Samsung.

Battery

It has been widely noted that 2016 was a terrible year for Samsung what with the Note 7’s battery issues. As such, 2017, see’s it taking a more cautious approach to how it supplies power to the S8 and S8 Plus. So, much, so, that both devices have seen a relative reduction in their capacities, compared to what would have been expected. However, Samsung has improved its power management software, a reason why users will see improvements in battery life.

As for the difference in capacities between them and the Nokia 9, it is rumored to be getting a 3800mAh battery. While the S8 has a 3000mAh and the S8 Plus a 35000mAh power unit, which will come out on top? You would expect the larger capacity of the Nokia too; however, Samsungs promise of improvements may negate that.