Buoyed by the party’s sweeping victory in the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, the Delhi unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is expecting to make inroads in Muslim-majority wards in the national capital in the civic polls on April 22.

Party sources said following the results in four states — Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur, and UP — it has managed to engage members of minority community at 400 booths in Delhi, where the number was zero earlier.

“There used to be 600 booths in minority-dominated areas, where the BJP hardly got workers to carry out political activities and manage elections. The party, last month, invited five names from each booth to be nominated as ‘panchparmeshwar,’ but no name was forwarded from those 600 booths for management. However, after the UP poll results, the scenario has changed as it has successfully nominated panchparmeshwar in 400 booths,” he said.
There are more than 13,500 booths in 272 wards in the city.

State BJP chief Manoj Tiwari also said he is hopeful that before the booth-level workers’ meet on Sunday, it will have requisite number of workers from the remaining 200 centres. “I have taken up this responsibility. We will get five workers for all these booths for sure. These panchparmeshwars will facilitate us to establish connect with people,” he said.

Tiwari said that five residents, including a youth, senior citizen and a woman, chosen from all walks of life, will be nominated for booth management in the area in the Delhi civic polls.
The party has planned a convention of booth-level workers on March 19 (Sunday) at Ramlila Maidan, in which around 60,000 people are likely to attend. “BJP’s national president Amit Shah will address them,” Tiwari said.

According to a senior party leader, the list of panchparmeshwars will also be handed over to Shah, who may ask individuals about the polls preparation during the meet. “A seating arrangement on the basis of districts and wards will be done on Sunday. This will be shared with Amit Shah. The entire exercise to strengthen the party base at grassroot level with a motto ‘Booth jeeto, election jeeto’ (Win booth to win election),” he said.