This was greatest comeback in Champions League history. Perhaps football history too.

Sergi Roberto’s stoppage time strike helped Barcelona come back from 4-0 down against PSG to complete an astonishing 6-1 victory.

Edinson Cavani seemed to have crushed Barcelona’s hopes of an unprecedented result with a vicious half-volley after the Catalans scored three, but Luis Enrique’s side refused to give in and went and scored three more.

Luis Suarez opened the scoring after three minutes and Andres Iniesta forced Layvin Kurzawa into an own goal just before the break.

Lionel Messi blasted home at the third from the penalty spot before Cavani smashed home to poop the party—or so it seemed.

Neymar intervened with two goals in the final few minutes, before setting up one for Sergi Roberto in the 94th minute to send the Camp Nou into pandemonium.

1. This is why football makes us dream.
Cold hard logic dictated that Barcelona would not be able to comeback from such a brutal deficit, but the impossible being made reality is what keeps us coming back to football time and time again.

In the build-up Luis Enrique insisted that if PSG could score four against his team in Paris then Barcelona could hit them for six at the Camp Nou. That a comeback was even thinkable is incredible in itself.

And Barcelona’s self-belief tripled when Suarez headed home after just three minutes. They racked up the pressure and the chances, pelting Kevin Trapp’s goal.

The crucial second came five minutes before half-time, with Messi adding the third five minutes after it.

Then, disaster. Cavani lashed home from 15 yards, and resignation spread like wildfire around the stadium. It had been some effort, but that looked to be that.

Luis Enrique said in his pre-match press conference that it wasn’t in Barcelona fans’ culture to turn the Camp Nou into a cauldron, somewhere like the San Paolo on a big European night.

Instead he asked the fans to create waves of pressure, which they did, and his team rode them as they dominated PSG.

Banners were hung up around the city on Tuesday night by Barcelona’s ultras, with messages of support for the team, and that atmosphere was carried into the stadium, which has rarely seen as raucous an evening as this, especially in the past few years.

Flags were waved in every stand, huge canvases were wielded around the stadium, with the largest draped down from the grandstand reading ‘Everyone with the team’.

And a stadium which can often feel like a theatre as fans politely applaud the art presented to them was transformed into a furious bowl of fire, with PSG shaken by it and Barcelona energised.