Nokia has become one of the much talked about smartphone brands across the world ever since HMD announced that they will launch devices under the Nokia brand name. The company is highly anticipated to unveil its flagship Android smartphones in the coming months.
The speculations are that Nokia has an array of smartphones launching soon. The rumors point at Nokia 7, Nokia 8, and Nokia 9 to mention a few. Of these, the Nokia 9 is hitting the rumor mills very often. Lately, the smartphone's complete specifications were leaked online showing what it might actually arrive with. It is believed to be an advanced smartphone competing with the likes of Galaxy S8 with its high-end features.
Apart from rumors, the designers are also trying their hands at visualizing how this smartphone might look like. The YouTube channel, Concept Creator has come up with yet another set of concepts showing its possible design. 
Expect the latest SoC Earlier this year, Qualcomm unveiled the Snapdragon 835 octa-core SoC. The same has been used by Samsung in its recent flagship smartphone duo - Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus. The recent concept video shows that we can expect this one on board the Nokia 9.
Expect the latest SoC Earlier this year, Qualcomm unveiled the Snapdragon 835 octa-core SoC. The same has been used by Samsung in its recent flagship smartphone duo - Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus. The recent concept video shows that we can expect this one on board the Nokia 9.
Will be on par with other Android biggies The Nokia 9 is alleged to be on par with the Android flagship smartphones from other manufacturers. We say this as one of the recent leaks show that the smartphone might arrive with an OLED display that is rumored to be used by the iPhone 8. Apart from the presence of a fingerprint scanner, this smartphone is believed to have an iris scanner as well, making it similar to the Samsung Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus.
Besides these features, the Nokia 9 is believed to arrive with a 5.5-inch display with QHD resolution, and get the power from a 3800mAh battery. 
